If data is the bottleneck, if having the
real expertise is the bottleneck, like
would you rather have the smartest
person in history work at your company
or someone who's been there for 30
years? Sometimes you really want the
person who's been there for 30 years.
There's a lot of expertise that comes
from really understanding a problem
deeply and interact with it over a long
time. And this is really what happens in
training that is almost impossible to
replicate in a a short prompt. You
really want the ability for
institutional knowledge to compound over
time, for best practices to compound
over time. And this is how institutions
and companies uh grow to be really
powerful and successful is they stand on
the shoulders of what they've done
before rather than kind of resetting
every day. Yeah.
>> And we want to have this be accessible
to any company that wants to do this.
And I think that's how we've thought
about approaching it especially as
software becomes easier for people to
manipulate as the barrier to entry for
coding becomes easier. We see the same
happening for AI research.
Will and Johannes work at Prime
Intellect which is one of the coolest
neols in AI right now. Uh your mission
is to make frontier lab training
accessible to everyone which I think is
a very noble mission. you have really
really strong taste and just developer
feel and just understanding how to you
know that that intuition for what what
developers care about and then what you
all launched with uh the reinforcement
learning environments hub was like
really really differentiated and people
were very excited about and so I'm
excited to chat about many topics with
you all today um post- training
reinforcement learning agent harnesses
uh your platform the RL hub and then big
big picture questions on what's what's
coming next and and post- trainining and
RL does that work
>> sounds great absolutely Maybe to get
started, you are one of the leading
research labs enabling customers to
post-train their agents. Can you tell me
about you what what is that? What does
that mean?
>> Yeah, for sure. Happy to take that one
and yeah, give a bit of a higher level
overview of like what our platform does
as well our research at Prime Intellect.
Um yeah, as we already mentioned at the
beginning, we try to make yeah frontier
infrastructure available to any like
startup, enterprise and yeah Neoab as
well. And uh yeah basically the
infrastructure that yeah is currently
locked behind the walls of the big labs
where yeah nobody really has access to
them and um yeah we really um start from
like the compute layer and the compute
orchestration layer and go all the way
up then to the entire full post training
stack. So everything from like the
training frameworks that are needed to
do large scale reinforcement learning to
um yeah the environments with yeah a bit
of a more community approach with our
environment hub to yeah other pieces
that are actually needed to do this like
um yeah sandboxes for secure code
execution and um yeah evaluations as
part of our environment hub as well and
yeah to offer this like as an end toend
um yeah product in a sense
>> and what's the intuition for for why
even why pursue that mission statement
so making all that infrastructure
available to everyone.
>> Yeah, there's a lot of reasons. I think
one is and I think something that we are
very passionate about is just like open
science as a way that humanity moves
forward where like a lot of the big
scientific discoveries historically have
been things that we we talk about and as
a world we can kind of build on top of
but kind of more practically speaking as
well there's a lot of value in model
customization where we are like the
winning applications are using AI for a
specific thing for some agent for some
workflow where you also want to be able
to deliver this at scale and with cost
effective performance uh and so really
the way to kind
really optimized these systems end to
end is to be able to have access to the
model weights directly where you can
then craft the model to be the best
model for your problem rather than some
model off the shelf where the crafting
happens just in a prompt. And so it's
it's really just allowing a deeper layer
of customization than what you can do at
the prompt level.
>> And then is your vision vers uh vision
for the future then that you know every
company will be pre-training their own
models, post-training their own models,
uh fine-tuning their like what what do
you think the future holds? We
definitely think that every company will
be an AI company and we think most AI
companies will want to have an AI
research lab and research can look like
many different things. It can look like
pre-training especially if you're in a
domain where you maybe don't just want
text in text out if you want something
more uh bespoke. Um in a lot of cases it
will be like post-training agentic or
otherwise uh kind of focused models for
specific tasks and workflows. Um, and I
think that's getting to the point where
it's productionizable and cost-
effective where you can actually make
this very practical for people to do at
scale for kind of the right shape
problems that people want to solve.
>> Awesome. And then can you say at a high
level what your platform does?
>> Yeah, so we have a full stack research
platform called lab and lab is about
giving everybody the ability to do the
things that a frontier research lab can
do internally but for anyone in the
world who wants to do this kind of
research. And uh a big focus of lab is
the notion of an environment. And so I
think a lot of people have heard the
term environment in the context of
reinforcement learning. And that's a big
focus of it for us, which is that an RL
environment is encapsulating the things
you need to do to do reinforcement
learning where you can have a model
improve via trial and error. But it's
also more general beyond just
reinforcement learning. And I think if
you haven't heard of an environment
before, it's essentially the same thing
as the eval that get reported when
people talk about new model releases.
So, SWEBench and Amy and Terminal Bench.
These are all examples of environments
where there's a data set of tasks.
There's a harness for the model to be in
and there's something called a rubric or
reward function which is responsible for
grading the quality of the outputs. And
so, the same thing you'd use as an eval
offline as your kind of your test set.
Uh you can use this in reinforcement
learning as your train set. And this is
a way to uh improve model performance uh
interactively. And so our platform is
really enabling people to use
environments in their workflows for
post- training, for evaluation, for
synthetic data, for reinforcement
learning. And it's also very much
focused on as a community platform in
the same way as things like GitHub are
where this stuff is new. It's
complicated. And we want people to have
lots of building blocks they can draw
from and lots of examples and for it to
be collaborative and for people to have
reasons to kind of show off ways of
using uh models or different tools in
workflows as environments to allow other
people to post-train models uh in those
environments to kind of have this way of
kind of sharing the ability to improve
performance across different tasks. I
think the general idea is to give more
companies the actual ability and
advantage that's currently only the big
labs have in a sense of like this
product model optimization loop where
they um yeah can optimize their models
um for their specific product in a sense
and we see it as a yeah thing where um
yeah that's a kind of reason why like a
chapt was created by Mayai or like a
clot code was created by anthropic they
actually have the capabilities to um
yeah optimize models for their specific
scaffolds in a sense and um yeah have
their models work way better in their
products and um the more popular those
kind of products also become in a sense
like a cloud code becoming extremely
popular right now um the the big labs
have yeah naturally lessen of an
incentive to actually make it work
better for like other coding startups in
a sense right and um the idea there is
to to give them the tools to have like
their own like model product
optimization loop
>> and um yeah I think they're early
adopters on that front um I think yeah
one great example
um always in this case that I always
give is is for example um that yeah
realized that in my opinion quite early
on they built their own like composer
one model where they did like large
scale post training in a sense and um
yeah really optimized a model where the
environment was actually Kursza itself.
So uh yeah gives them all the tools that
like you have in Kurszer in a sense as
well and um yeah optimize a model inside
of Kursza and yeah we believe there's a
lot of more startups that yeah will go
this direction to um yeah on the one
side optimize their current products in
a sense but also um yeah uh build
completely new products that are really
not possible right now without having
this product model optimization loop.
>> Awesome. And can we say a word on you
said something interesting. Um you said
environments are just eval. Um can we
can we dissect that statement? In in my
head an environment is a it's state.
It's a description of world state. Um
through which you know you observe what
actions you take. You observe how world
state changes and therefore you update
your word model. That to me is distinct
from an eval which is like you should
have gotten this answer on this set of
questions. And so can you help me merge
those two realities?
>> Sure. Yeah. So I think there's um a
version of eval that's kind of where we
were maybe a year or two ago where a lot
of evol like question and answer uh and
it's like this big bank of questions and
then maybe there's other notions of
environment that people think about when
they talk about like uh kind of old
school RL with like Atari that is much
more about like this kind of longunning
state interaction loop and I think where
we are now is it's both in the same
thing where
>> especially the the environments that you
want to do large scale training on they
do have this complex state they maybe
are simulating a web app it's a
full-fledged kind of coding platform
where you have an agent doing these
things. But
>> in those in the original RL games,
there's always a reward. There's a goal.
Uh and so the the notion of there being
a goal of this problem where it's not
just running through some system and a
human is going to kind of vibe check it.
There actually is something that can
measure progress and performance. And
that that's kind of what I mean by it's
uneval
uh interacts with the system, the
environment, the harness, the uh the
agent, whatever you want to call it.
Yeah.
>> Um but there is some goal and there's a
way to measure whether it's doing well
or not.
>> Okay, got it. Um and then is there a
difference between you mentioned kind of
cursor as a great example of somebody do
doing really great frontier work uh and
reinforcement learning. Um is there a
good way to think about when should you
be kind of constructing RL environments
versus when should your actual
application and your application states
be the the environment so to speak?
Yeah, I think there's definitely reasons
where you want both, especially like
let's say you're training a model to be
a really good Rust coding model here.
You might want it to be good for lots of
different applications where you'd have
different environments that are focused
on some like domain task. Maybe you're a
company that wants a model that's going
to be really good at calling your tools
or using your specific uh domain
language that then you can provide as a
service to people who are building
around that. Um, and there's also ones
where the product very much is like a
user interface for an end user where the
user is interacting with an agent, in
which case it might make the most sense
for the product to very directly become
the environment where I think the the
companies who might want to be doing
this are the same who care about whether
they're using Claude or GBT or Gemini or
the ability to choose models and have
internal systems to evaluate whether a
certain system prompt is good or whether
changing out a model endpoint is good or
whether using the mini version of a
model is a better uh cost performance
trade-off. the infrastructure to do that
is that a lot of people have already
been building at these kind of advanced
agent companies is the same
infrastructure you use to do
reinforcement learning. And so I think
that's kind of this uh kind of
convenient world we ended up in where
the training paradigm that makes the
most sense for improving model
capabilities is the same sort of thing
that a lot of people have been building
up the muscle for just without doing the
training piece. And so that's kind of
where we see RL being a very useful tool
for people to then have this as an
option in their toolkit for system
optimization.
>> Got it. Okay. Um, want to talk about
agent harnesses as they apply RL. I feel
like harnesses is like the the theme of
the moment, especially with you
mentioned Claude Code getting so much
love. I think one of the things that
they do exceptional engineering around
is the harness. Um, harness and RL are
those things orthogonal, mutually
exclusive, like how do they relate?
>> Yeah, they definitely relate. Um, I
think the way I think of a harness is
like a piece of the environment. And so
um there's some for any like eval or
environment task there's some input a
bunch of stuff is going to happen then
there's some output state which is then
going to be graded and so this whole
intermediate piece whether it's uh
interacting with some simulator or
interacting with uh some another agent
or physical world sim. This is the
environment and the harness is very much
a piece of that where it uh couples how
the the model uh interacts with any
other pieces of the system. And I think
depending on the application area like I
think for coding agents we have a pretty
clear like definition of what's the you
could say the harness is the CLI coding
agent and the the terminal is the
environment. Um but this isn't
necessarily going to be universal across
like all different types of agents. In
some cases it's a system prompt and some
tools is the harness. In some cases it's
something that is going to be spawning
sub agents and those sub agents also
have their own harnesses. Um and so
there's a lot of complexity and I think
the way we've thought about it is like
harnesses going to keep evolving. um
there's going to be this Cambrian
explosion of ways people want to use
models and we want to take a a pretty
general approach in defining what you
could do with a harness. Um and so what
we are really thinking about and why we
use the term environment as the
abstraction is like agent is too narrow,
harness is like kind of too narrow and
you can do all of these things within an
environment but the environment as a
abstraction on the whole allows this any
sort of system uh model interaction is
in scope. And then do you think then
do you think all companies should be
post-training their models with
environments? Um are there specific kind
of you know where the bullseye like you
absolutely need to be using environments
versus like you could be post- training
with a different method? Sure.
>> Versus you should just be prompting your
thing.
>> I mean I think environments are tools
you can use to do all of these things.
And so I think that's one when I talk
about kind of environments beyond RL, I
think part of the reason why it's a
useful abstraction is because it doesn't
tie you to RL. Let's say I want to have
a small model and I want it to be
distilled from a big model. The way you
can do this is you take the big model,
you plug it in your environment, you let
it run a bunch of times. Now you have
all this data that comes from the same
interaction protocol. You can use the
same greater at the end to filter for
the best examples and then do SFT
fine-tuning on that. You could do prompt
optimization with an environment. you
could AB test different models with an
environment just as you would with an
eval. Um, and so we really I think the
idea is that every AI company should be
optimizing their AI systems.
>> I think that's a less like controversial
take.
>> Okay. And maybe there's another way to
frame it like the the eval is almost how
your agent performs in the set of
environments that you expect your
customers to face.
>> Yeah, I think it um it depends on what
you want to call like I mean in kind of
traditional machine learning terms, you
don't want to overfitit to the test set.
Um, and so in some ways we kind of are
already accepting that we're going to be
like using the test set or the eval to
measure to have that kind of filter back
into the model. Um, and so it I think
it's a little tricky to distinguish even
like what is the eval, what is the
environment. Um, we kind of think of
them as one and the same. Um, and we use
the environment term very generically
where an eval is a type of environment
that's used for measuring performance
but not training on. Um, and that's kind
of how we see a lot of people thinking
about when they're doing evals, what
they really mean they're doing is they
have some way of measuring current
performance and they're iterating on it.
And in some ways, RL is this iteration
applied at scale where you're
automatizing the process of changing the
model a little bit, changing the prompt
a little bit, um, and having this be the
way that you can kind of hill climb on
some goal.
>> Maybe another question. Do you see
reinforcement learning as synonymous
uh, functionally with post- training? I
mean like if you're post training model
are you doing reinforcement learning or
are you doing other things?
>> There's definitely a lot of I think
reinforcement learning is like the big
thing now where it's like in many cases
practically speaking the if you're doing
a large scale model uh RL will be where
you spend the most of your time and
focus and compute. Um but it's not the
only thing you want to do. There's a lot
of things involved in the pull process
of going from some initial model to the
system you want to deploy. This can be
prompt tuning. This can be SFT. This can
be online distillation. uh there's a
number of algorithms that all kind of
are under this umbrella where RL is like
the big one in the middle but there's a
lot of stuff around it and uh really I
think exposing this toolkit to people
and letting them have all these knobs
they can play with is the way to unlock
>> and are you finding that it's the you
know really smart AI researchers that
actually know how to make this stuff
happen in practice is it you know
towards your goal of de democratizing AI
development for all you know does your
average fortune 500 know how to use the
platform and get value out of
I think most companies have people who
can.
>> Um I think any Fortune 500 any Fortune
500 company will likely have a team of
AI engineers who are capable at
following the like latest tools who are
good at using cloud code who um have a
lot of opinions about models and
prompting and those people certainly can
do this. That's kind of the audience
where we see as the target customer for
this
>> especially if you give them the right
tools to actually do it. um like maybe
some of those large companies don't
really have anybody in there who can
like debug your GPU cluster in a sense
to actually kick off such a run or um
yeah other components that are needed in
there to like actually just make it
easier in a sense to yeah do large scale
like um agentic reinforcement learning
with tool use with code execution and
pieces like this um to yeah just
abstract away the the entire
infrastructure for them.
>> Yeah, got it. Um awesome. Actually on
that note, do you guys have any favorite
customer stories that you want to share?
>> Um yeah, one of our favorite customers
that I would like to uh yeah point out
in a sense is RCI and Neolab working on
like frontier open models um have been
working with us on yeah the entire stack
in a sense, right? Um we've been talking
a lot about reinforcement learning,
right? Um but yeah, we've been yeah also
doing a large large scale pre-training
in the past. Um that's basically where
our history is coming from in a sense as
well, right? So uh yeah, I've been
training with them some of the largest
uh yeah mixture of expert models um and
actually able to yeah open source them
as well and um yeah as well on the on
the post training side um with them as
well. Um maybe uh will do you want to
share some more?
>> Sure. Yeah. So they're a very close
collaborative of ours that we've I think
we all been friends for a long time, but
also like we've been I think they've
been a way where we've had the they've
had a lot of things that they want infra
for and it's that's been a way that
we've been able to kind of uh force us
to build out a lot of the pieces both
from computer orchestration to uh
post-raining to pre-training to
inference um around kind of just making
the everything that is needed to kind of
be a frontier lab. Yep. Um, and I think
they're very aligned with us in the kind
of the openness mission. Um and I think
but I think their kind of focus they are
more targeted at like enterprises and
the end user where they are kind of
going to work more directly um with
customers in terms of like endto-end uh
kind of uh delivery of a certain
artifact where I think where we come in
is we are uh we uh are really focused on
the developer experience at the infra
layer and the ways that we can make put
these tools into more people's hands
where the process of going from idea to
deployable model can become as uh
seamless and kind of quick as possible
and efficient as possible.
>> Awesome. And then any other favorite
customer stories maybe on people that
are using the environments product
specifically?
>> Yeah. So we are definitely really
focused on like uh the research
community and like some of this is like
a lot of grad students use it. A lot of
like students and people who are getting
uh early uh in like their career
learning how to do this stuff are using
it. But also a lot of labs who are
focused on a very specific domain where
let's say you're starting a medical AI
lab. uh we work closely with a number of
groups in the medical AI space where
they want to create more uh both uh
benchmarks to understand how good our
models at medical capabilities both in
terms of diagnosis or patient
interactions or question answer about
medical literature um or agentic search
over certain medical tasks um and so uh
like Sant being two that we work closely
with um where the focus there is to they
really care about like earning trust
from the medical professionals and so
for them they really want to focus on
the domain pain and not as much on kind
of the the generic medical uh the the LM
infra that is kind of like a headache
for a lot of people. And so for them
like being able to kind of have this
platform for creating evaluations, for
showing them off, uh for being able to
use them to then improve model
capabilities that could then be deployed
locally in a hospital or uh deployed
locally for some end user where the
ability to have this customization and
have this kind of endto-end trust and
understanding of the data providence for
tasks at hand or the ability to kind of
customize models very directly is very
key. Do you have any customers that are
using you for more of like what you call
the old school kind of Atari style, you
know, learning from your environment
type?
>> By do you mean like so when I think of
Atari, I think of like nonLMs. Um, and
so we definitely are focused on LMS and
uh foundation models that look like LMS.
Uh there's definitely a lot of
researchers who uh use our platform for
uh these things that are more like
there's some examples we have on the
platform that are much more like games.
So, I mean, kind of one fun one that I
use as like a demo a lot is the game
Wordle from the New York Times where
this kind of ended up just being the
like a great hello world environment for
people because it's the infra is really
simple, but it's very expressive where
you can kind of get a feel for it and
you get this aha moment of seeing a
model learn to think about the game as
you give it rewards for doing better.
And you can have you can do it with a
really tiny model, too. like it's it's
in this sweet spot of difficulty where
you can do these runs on like a couple
GPUs in an hour uh and see a model
actually learn how to get better at the
game. Yeah. And
>> yeah, I would say like the more toyish
game examples. Um, yeah, usually the
ones that people are going for for
actually learning how to build those
reinforcement learning environments. And
yeah, that's also what people are
heavily using the environment hub for in
a sense just because we have all this
infrastructure built around it to uh
yeah, be able to actually test um your
environments and um yeah, that's usually
how they start out and then yeah, go to
actually building more complex
environments uh later on. Um, another
group I would love to give a shout out
to in a sense that have been building
some of the more complex environments on
the hub um are people part of our
reinforcement learning residency um
where um yeah we have like a group we
initially started out with like um 8 to
10 people I think 14 to 16 are now in
the group um you have people grad
students as well as yeah people working
full-time that um yeah part-time like
building reinforcement learning
environments as well as doing novel
research on top of the environment hub
and um yeah those folks have yeah built
uh yeah amazing um Yeah, environments in
like all kinds of verticals in a sense.
Everything from like verifiable software
engineering in lean to uh medical
physics environment to some cyber
security environments. Um so uh and then
yeah also we give them the tools
obviously now to to actually do the
training in those as well.
>> Yeah. Awesome. Um can you help demystify
for me? I've heard that some of the
foundation model companies are spending
you know millions of dollars each on
some of these environments. Yeah. Um,
and so like you mentioned cyber security
at the end like what goes into
constructing a cyber security
environment.
>> Yeah. So there's there's someone in our
residency program who actually does a
lot of the stuff. And so like there
actually is a lot of like tooling in the
cyber security world around like these
capture the flag games where there's
there's some system that has some hidden
bug in it. And this is like a challenge
that pro originally these are built for
programmers or programmers will have
like a little hackathon where they try
to go find the bug in some system. But
you can adopt these challenges to uh LMS
as well where it then is a a full
software environment where it's a
terminal where the agent lives in the
terminal and has access to tools for
doing bash commands. Maybe it's uh using
cloud code or some other uh wrapper for
an agent harness but it's in a terminal
full of files and can interact with
these files and then at some point the
it marks that it's finished with the
roll out and then you can grade the
state of the environment using other uh
pieces of software other code that
executes. Um but we do like we actually
uh have a lot of people we work with who
are in the data and environment space
where we've found that um there's a lot
of uh interest in using reinforcement
learning as a way to evaluate data
quality where um the uh ability to
measure what happens when you train a
model on a set of tasks, set of rubrics,
set of uh environments uh allows you to
understand bugs in the environments
because uh there are issues that come up
in reinforcement learning where maybe if
your environment has a a backd dooror a
model can exploit this and kind game the
game the system. And so I think there's
a lot of interest in people using RL to
like in the pipeline from like idea to
environment that ends up in some
frontier labs uh like foundational
training run for the next GPT or cloud
model. There's a lot of vetting that
goes into this and doing these like
smaller or uh like medium scale runs in
like let's say one environment allows
you to really poke and see where the
problems might be.
>> Okay, super interesting. And if we take
the cyber security environment example
one step further. By the way, I have no
no particular affection for cyber
security. That's something that like I I
love having a specific example in my
head. Um I could see how you could
construct a toy example, right? These
capture the fly examples. I imagine
they're toy examples. I would imagine
they look nothing like the actual kind
of corporate network environment of a,
you know, real company with all of its
cyber security products. And so I guess
how do you construct an actual you know
does does what people can construct does
it actually scale up towards imitating
and reflecting the complexities of the
real world almost like the you know the
robotics a real gap? Yeah.
>> Um is there a similar real gap in
crafting these environments and is
solution just to like train on like real
kind of corporate security environments?
>> Yeah. So I would say there's less of a
barrier in terms of the actual
complexity like the in principle these
can be as complex as you want. Um it's
anything that could be on a computer. So
just think of anything that's on a
computer or network of computers as
potentially an environment. What really
kind of uh becomes the bottleneck in
many ways is like cost of the simulator
where I think there's a lot of focus on
identifying clever ways to kind of mock
the right piece of the system where
let's say you have an agent that you
want to like let's say the internet like
let's say you want to have an agent that
like does a lot of like web search in
some cases you actually want to do the
real web search in some cases you want
to find ways where you can design tasks
where you actually don't need the full
thing. Um, it's like this kind of uh I
don't know. Um,
I think of like the map games where
there's this world you want to explore
where there might be this whole map and
like some of it's like dark but as you
walk around like the light shines and
then you now see this part of it. And so
if you know which pieces of this map
might actually be explored on a given
task, then this kind of allows you to
decide which pieces are important or
not. And so like one example uh like
there's some bench there's a benchmark
called T2 bench that is very popular in
the the eval world where it's about
customer service agents involving a
database and so the database is
something where like in a real system
you might need the full database but if
you know that the agent is only going to
ask certain types of questions for a
task uh you don't need a full database
with millions of records or thousands or
or billions of of uh like different
examples. you can have kind of a mock
database that is uh a cheaper to run
maybe in memory piece of software that
um only has the things that are expected
by the agent or expected in the the
scope for a given task. And so
identifying like the pieces of the
system that where the complexity is kind
of overkill uh is part of this task
design process to enable efficiency.
>> And does your platform help with that?
Like it that almost seems like you know
if creating environments is the
bottleneck to training these systems
then like being able to efficiently
create these environments where you know
you're lighting up the part of the map
that has to be lit up lit up is like a
core kind of almost platform competency.
Do you guys assist with that? Yeah, I
mean it's definitely a way that we think
about the design of everything and we
kind of go down a lot of these different
uh like rabbit holes as we have to focus
on different tasks when working with
different people and so like coding
agents maybe is one example where like
there's a lot of complexity that comes
up when working with um like sandboxes
and terminal states and ensuring that
you have like good snapshotting and all
these things and uh protocols to
interact with different agent harnesses.
And so we've built a lot around that.
But it's also the sort of thing that we
kind of know that the space of
complexity is going to grow arbitrarily
over time as people start uh getting
more uh deep into these different
domains. And I think we've tried to
design everything in a way where we we
keep a lot of doors open where like we
have room to build features that kind of
like there's there's base layers of like
generic environments. Then you can go I
want a coding agent environment. I want
a coding environment with a sandbox
that's global across the run or I want
one per roll out or there's lots of
these different branches you can go down
and so we kind of have anticipated like
there will be a lot of these branches
there's some that we've built for
there's some that I think we're kind of
ready to build for when we need to um
and we also like think a lot about how
do you make a good developer experience
where let's say think about just
documentation or skill files for agents
people are going to be using coding
agents when they're building these and
so uh there's a lot of institutional
knowledge that gets built up when you're
doing this kind of research both for
like a specific project or as a research
team doing large scale training runs and
being able to surface this information.
Some of it is directly in the product,
some of it is in the way we design the
libraries. Some of it is in
documentation or skill files that get
shown to agents. And this is the sort of
thing where we we've designed it to be
something that can evolve over time as
like the research literature evolves as
the uh best practices for different
types of complex agents become more
clear. I assume you guys read Sutton's
um learning from what is age of
experience
>> experience. Yeah.
>> Scale AI era data labeling. Um do you
think that constructing environments is
sort of the natural successor to that?
Yeah, I mean it very much seems like it
kind of already is where it it does seem
like a lot of the focus from the major
labs has shifted to they're still using
a lot of human data and so human data
doesn't seem to be going away because
creating these environments kind of by
definition is for things that models
aren't good enough at yet which means
the humans are are better than the
models in some capacity and so
identifying which pieces of information
the human can most uniquely assist the
model in improving its skill on I think
is really the key to target which is how
do you create this information flow from
the human who really has the expert
knowledge on how to do some sort of
thing. what does a job well done look
like and get it into the model? And it
does seem to be that RL is the most
effective way to do this right now where
having tasks with uh prompts to grade
with an LLM judge a rubric uh for what
success looks like on a task is kind of
the paradigm that's emerging for a lot
of these cases where a human sometimes
it's the reward model but kind of the
most direct visceral version of it is uh
there's a set of questions about yes no
was this done in the LM's answer and
that turns into the reward score
>> and so that requires a lot of human data
Okay, awesome. Um, why create a hub for
environments?
>> Yeah, I think the hub idea um started by
seeing a lot of different like open
source repos out there that had like
overflowing implementations of all those
environments in a sense and um yeah and
in general like we already or will
already created the nice verifiers
framework um before we even started the
environment hub, right? where you had
different examples for environments in
there and it was very much a um yeah an
approach to like standardize the whole
cress even process even more.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and beyond that um just beyond just
like sharing those environments right
and having like an open source platform
for it. It's also about having like a
place where you can build a lot of um
yeah infrastructure around them which
you can't really do if you just upload
them to like a GitHub repo or something
like this. So um yeah having a proper
evaluations uh like integrated with your
environment so you can like immediately
um test them across all frontier models
is one of the features um yeah people
are heavily using um the environment hub
then for right um you make it extremely
easy to install one of those
environments inside of uh yeah a
different trainer. So um yeah, we
obviously have our own like large scale
trainer with with Primal L which we've
been yeah heavily optimizing for this
but yeah we are very open there on the
open source side to integrate with like
a bunch of different trainers because
people have different um yeah needs on
on the trainer side as well
>> and um yeah that's how how the whole
idea of the environment up uh yeah um
>> and what has the community behavior been
like? Do you see people forking
modifying these environments? Do you see
them, you know, putting something 8020
out into the public domain and then
like, you know, we're going to keep our
secrets for oursel and, you know, not
share that back like what's the
community behavior?
>> Yeah, I mean, there's definitely a lot
of people we work with who want to keep
their environments private as you
understand. But the value for them of it
being a hub is that they can do
ablations on ones that are kind of known
to be they can compare their private one
versus some public one that might be on
a similar type of task or for eval
there's a lot of value in having kind of
uh mix uniform implementations of
popular benchmarks in a way that if
you're doing a training run you can plug
in some known eval as a way to monitor
the progress of your run. And so maybe
you're doing well on your environment
you can see does your environment also
generalize to other tasks. And so having
all these other tasks available is a
really uh helpful way for people to be
able to um understand not just their own
tasks but other things they might want
the model to be good at as well.
>> Yeah. Awesome. What are the most popular
environments on the hub today?
>> Yeah, I think it tends to be the ones
that are these kind of uh one is the
ones that we use as the examples in the
documentation that naturally in software
tends to be the most popular ones. the
WLE stuff.
>> The Wordles one's popular, but I think
one that uh we see a lot of like
interest around and one where I think
there has been the most uh degree of
people kind of branching and forking and
turning it into different versions is
one that we call wiki search, which is
doing search over Wikipedia pages. Um,
but it's designed to be this template
you could use for aentic search more
broadly. So the there's a lot of
applications where people want agents
that know how to search over their
internal uh documents or documents for a
specific type of information and having
this kind of template for if you just
you just have to swap out the documents
and now you have this environment ready
to go where the the rest of it is
already kind of set up. Um that tends to
be the sort of thing where we see a lot
of value in people being able to um
bring other types of documents uh that
they'd want to do a generic search.
>> Yeah. Got it. Okay. Awesome. Um I want
to maybe shift towards future research
you know big blue sky uh questions. Uh
maybe the first one Andre I think is one
of your one of your angels as well. He
kind of has that infamous quote of you
know RL is you know it's it's amazing
but it's it's quite inefficient and it's
like sucking bits from a straw
>> I guess. Do you agree with that? And
what do you think is going to happen in
the research side to make RL more
efficient?
Yeah, I mean I think um it's definitely
true that RL is using a lot of compute
to get a pretty kind of small signal in
terms of pure information, but I think
in some ways that's part of the value of
it as well. And I think one of the
reasons that a lot of the the labs have
really focused on it is that one of the
bottlenecks that's hard to scale is
human data, especially high quality
human data. Um and RL allows you to kind
of trade off compute for data in a sense
where uh you can get a lot of value out
of a smaller amount of data by using
more compute. Um
>> and so the supervision comes coming from
this data is like small but you can get
a lot out of it more so than you can via
pre-training or supervised fine-tuning
alone. Uh as well as um it's useful in
cases where you don't necessarily have
golden examples. So like if you have a
bigger model to distill from that's
great but if you're already at the
biggest model size that you have access
to um then you kind of need to go into
uncharted territory and exploration is
really the heart of RL. It's how do you
explore and try out different things and
maybe there are ways to do exploration
that are more efficient than RL that
people will kind of discover but this is
kind of currently the the frontier of
using compute to explore and improve
capabilities and so that's what we got
for now
>> for sure and I think uh like I can't
speak for Andre obviously um but yeah I
would be curious to hear his views like
two months later after the latest like
Drakish podcast in a sense on um his
views especially on the coding side for
uh like large reinforcement learning and
how it actually helps Um if you look at
something like like clot code which
definitely was already popular before
but definitely popped up more over the
last uh like one month I would say. Um
then uh yeah my yeah his views might
change in a sense on like uh the
specific piece of how uh yeah useful
reinforcement learning can be in the in
the coding domain.
>> Y
>> um but yeah generally we we don't think
that's going to be the end in a sense
right. Um we generally think we want to
be always at the frontier of like what
comes next in terms of paradigms. Um
yeah there's definitely lots of low
hanging fruit still on the like pushing
Agentica capabilities even further. Um
but uh yeah we also like uh know the
limitations in a sense right like some
of the pieces we've been working on um
where we definitely see limitations is
on the yeah context side um so um yeah I
think they um yeah we we just like have
a hard limit right now of how much uh
like uh tokens we can fit into a context
and you have been thinking there about
ways on how to actually improve that in
a sense. Yeah. Awesome. Um, switching
gears a little bit open source open
weight models.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, what do you see what do you see the
role open open weight models play? Does
your infrastructure
um kind of work only on or work
optimally on open weight models? Could
you kind of help people do post training
around closed weight models? How does
that all work?
>> Yeah. So, in in many ways like the the
trainer itself is going to require
having access to the weights. So if
anyone who has closed weight models
wants to use it, we h we're happy to
chat. Um but more broadly the idea of
the environment is general across
different types of optimization. And so
we can do using the same infrastructure
at the environment level for doing eval
uh closed models for doing prompt tuning
on closed models for doing model
selection for evaluating agent
harnesses. There's a lot of research
that can be done around closed models
just by having a way to do this
experimentation. Y
>> uh and so it whether you're using open
or closed models um it's you can create
data that some platforms might let you
upload some examples that maybe you're
distilling from a particular model into
another um where you use the environment
as this data engine um so there's a lot
of different ways you can use the tools
to optimize models
>> and do you need need the weights like
for example can you kind of Laura uh
>> yeah so I mean the Laura I would
consider still part of the fine tuning
process and that's what we recommend a
lot of people do for RL anyways Um, and
so like you don't need this necessarily
with the full weights, but like you
can't I can't upload my own Laura for
GBT5. Um, but I could bring an
environment to the platform potentially.
Um, and so I think there's a lot of
different ways you can do partial
customization. And I would imagine that
in many cases the degree of like how
many do you need a lower adapter, do you
need full tuning is going to depend on
the training recipe as well as the goal
of your optimization.
>> Yeah. whether can you do reinforcement
learning on like the agent harness
around a closed model.
>> Yeah. So I would definitely consider
this in the domain of like like there's
a a field a world of prompt optimization
that some people have uh been exploring
in the research world that is in some
ways kind of an analog of RL but in
prompt space where you have the spy.
>> Yes. Exactly. And so like the GPA
algorithm got a lot of attention like
late last year uh as kind of a a what
seemed to be a better way of doing this.
And so we support we have support for
that as well with our environments um
where you can do this around different
pieces of the harness where this might
be what's the prompt used for a certain
tool, what's the agent skill, what's the
system prompt. There's a lot of these
things that you can apply different
types of optimization to.
>> Awesome. While we're on the topic of
DSPY, um I think the DSPY authors also
uh have this new thing that is the
current thing. Uh what what is it?
Recursive language models.
>> Yes.
>> What do you guys think?
>> Yeah. Um we are definitely very
interested in that. Um yeah, as I um
yeah already said earlier in a sense we
are very interested in like um yeah
longer horizon agents and so on and like
actually solving things for those um
type of use cases and uh yeah I've been
internally thinking for a long time
about uh like how can we um yeah have
models learn how to manage their own
context. Um so um right now people are
building a lot of scaffolds for context
management and yeah we believe uh like
something that is a bit more better in a
sense is to have the model learn how to
manage its own context and um yeah I've
been yeah searching for different
research in this kind of domain for a
pretty long time and yeah the recursive
language model research direction is one
of the yeah most promising ones in our
opinion um we've been yeah uh since yeah
Alex Sang who's the original author of
the RM work um yeah published it we've
been yeah very interested in this kind
of work have been yeah exploring it um
as part of our like research as well and
um yeah had a blog post out um a couple
of weeks ago that um yeah basically
showed um using this RLM harness where
you um yeah pretty much give a language
model access to um a variable in a
persistent Python ripple. So it can um
not have this whole uh context or the
whole data as input in a sense but it
has it in this variable that it can then
yeah retrieve it can transform it and um
uh yeah manage it context through that
and then also uh call other like sublms
where the recursive part comes from to
actually like um yeah uh manage it and
um yeah that's the the whole idea behind
the recursive language model we've been
doing into uh yeah um yeah some uh
exploration there on this front to
actually just give uh yeah current like
frontier language model access to this
yeah specific rem harness. So not
necessarily training in this harness but
just giving it access to the specific um
yeah um way of like dealing with its own
context. Um and yeah, it's been all be
shown to like improve benchmarks on um
yeah very long horizon reasoning quite a
bit. And yeah, we are very excited as
like a new frontier in a sense to
actually train in this as well to let
the model train uh well train the model
to actually use this harness. Um and
yeah, that's what we're going to work on
over the next couple of months.
>> Super exciting. What else in the
research domain? You guys have great
research taste. What What do you think
is on the horizon?
I'm really excited about synthetic data
research and it feels like there's a lot
of stuff that feels like we should be
able to do it. Uh but you haven't really
seen it emerge in the open in terms of
creative ways of doing kind of
self-reflection.
>> Um and I think people talk a lot about
continual learning as this kind of idea
that we're we're going to have to get
better at models kind of learning things
on their own. And I think the idea of um
using uh
other tricks that we already know in
conjunction in different ways, things
like prompt optimization, things like uh
distillation um in conjunction with
synthetic data.
It feels like there's a lot of I don't
want to kind of go too deep into
different directions, but it seems like
there's a lot of room for exploration
around having models curate their own
training data, maybe curate their own
environments, um, and understanding
which versions of this are most
effective for like lifelong learning.
>> Love it. Okay, we're going to close on
an optimistic note. Um, if everything
goes right, what does the world look
like and what is the role that Prime
Intellect serves in that world?
>> Yeah, great question. um how to answer
that on a on a high level overview in a
sense um I would say uh we don't want to
have a world where like all the like
future value of AI in all kinds of
verticals is just owned by the big labs
um we uh have something where we like
empower like entrepreneurs and
enterprises and so on to actually uh not
get steamrolled in a sense and uh like
optimize their products uh um yeah
better than they have the tools uh for
doing so right now and um yeah just
enabling this and yeah a lot more uh
like cloud code moments a lot more
cursor forex type moments um that will
be enabled through this
>> every company is a neo lab
>> in some way I mean if if data is the
bottleneck if having the real expertise
is the bottleneck like would you rather
have the smartest person in history work
at your company or someone who's been
there for 30 years and in some ways
sometimes you really want the person
who's been there for 30 years there's a
lot of expertise that comes from really
understanding a problem deeply and
interacting with it over a long time and
this is really what happens in training
that is almost impossible to replicate
in a a short prompt where um you really
want the ability for institutional
knowledge to compound over time, for
best practices to compound over time.
And this is how institutions and
companies uh grow to be really powerful
and successful is they stand on the
shoulders of what they've done before
rather than kind of resetting every day.
Yeah.
>> And we want to have this be accessible
to any company that wants to do this.
And I think that's how we've thought
about approaching it, especially as
software becomes easier for people to
manipulate, as the barrier to entry for
coding becomes easier. We see the same
happening for AI research.
>> It's really inspiring vision for the
world. Um, thank you guys so much for
joining today. You've really paved the
way on environments um and your
environment hub. And thank you for
taking the time to demystify what an
environment is and and share your vision
for the future.
>> Thanks. Thank you.